# Introduction to AlgoManim

## Installation
Assumes setup on Ubuntu Linux.

First, install Python and Python Dev Tools (if not already installed)
```bash
sudo apt install python3 python3-dev
```

Next, install all system library dependencies of Manim (this will consume quite a bit of disk space)

```bash
sudo apt install sox ffmpeg libcairo2 libcairo2-dev texlive-full
```
> For alternative system setup, please check the [official Manim documentation](https://manim.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/index.html#) out

Lastly, set up a virtual environment and install the Python dependencies. The command line should now be prefaced by `(venv)`.
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Verify installation by running the following command, which will produce preview files under `./media`.
```bash
python3 -m manim example_scenes.py SquareToCircle -pl
```

## GUI
You can run the video-rendering GUI as follows:
```bash
python3 -m cmdgui
```

## Overview of the Codebase
| Directory | Content Description |
|---------|--------------------------|
| `algomanim/` | Library containing implementations of Data Structures and Animations |
| `algomanim_examples/` | Various examples showing how to use AlgoManim library |
| `gui/` | AlgoManim GUI Source Code |
| `manim_example/` | Animations written in pure manim for reference |
| `tests/` | Tests |

## Examples
Examples that show the usage of the customizations and data structures that we support currently are provided in the `algomanim_examples/` folder. If you would like to get a quick overview of all the features we provide, please see `algomanim_examples/binarytreesort.py`.

## First Program
The simplest algomanim program, only requires a single python file with a class that extends `AlgoScene` and overrides the `algo(self)` method (as seen below). This scene, implements the BubbleSort Algorithm.

```python
from algomanim.algoscene import AlgoScene
from algomanim.algolist import AlgoList

class DefaultBubbleSortScene(AlgoScene):
    def algo(self):
        algolist = AlgoList(self, [25, 43, 5, 18, 30])
        swaps_made = True
        while swaps_made:
            swaps_made = False
            for i in range(algolist.len() - 1):
                j = i + 1
                if algolist.compare(i, j):
                    swaps_made = True
                    algolist.swap(i, j)
```
To run this program, simply type `python3 -m manim algomanim_examples/bubblesort_default.py DefaultBubbleSortScene -pl`. The animation will automatically play once it is rendered.

## Next Steps
Please read [Customizations.md](docs/Customizations.md) to find out more about how to customize the animations generated by us and [DataStructures.md](docs/DataStructures.md) to find out more about how to extend the library to the Data Structures of your choice and the operations on data structures currently supported.

## Coding style and conventions
All Python code should adhere to [PEP8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/). Pylint is used to enforce this, so it would probably be a good idea to select the linter in your editor if it allows you to.
If there are any linting rules that you want to exclude (for good reason), disable it in `.pylintrc`.
In order to pre-empt pipeline failure, please run `pytest -v --cov=algomanim` and `pylint *` locally before pushing.

Provisionally, the project folder structure is as follows:
`./algomanim` is the main folder where project source files should go.
`./tests` will contain the test files (with filenames prefaced by `test_`).
All generated files should be added to `./.gitignore`, please check before committing!

Feel free to update this README as we go along.